Welcome back in this lesson we're going to dive deeper into variables and also data types and look at
booleans.
So I did mention that one of the data types were booleans and it didn't really make a lot of sense because
those are all true or false.
So it doesn't really make a lot of sense to type in false or Taipan true unless we actually start looking
at variables.
So that's why we introduced variables in the last lesson.
So let's create some basic variables.
So look one that we're going to call my string and we're going to give this one a value of Hello World.
This is just a typical character set for a string.
Next one will have my number and this one will hold a value of 100.
So that's a nice round number.
And next we'll have my boolean.
So this one can either be true or false.
So for now let's just set it as true.
And these will become more apparent the usefulness of them as we progress.
And as we look deeper into conditions and looking at different comparison operators.
So now we've got our strings we've got our numbers we've got booleans all set up and I'm going to go
back to the page and you just refresh this.
And now I can callback number I can call back my value or being called it my string and we can see that
we can return back all of those values that we set with in the application.
So this shows you the usefulness of writing your code down with in file because you can always recall
that and you can set some values and you can interact with those values within the rest of your code.
So establishing variables usually done at the start of you whenever your script is being initiated because
the whole idea is that you want to set those parameters those initial starting points those initial
starting values that you can work with in order to write out all of the different logic for your program.
So we've looked at boolean and I did mention there are a few other primitive types that we haven't looked
at as of yet.
So let's let's just set a variable and we'll just call that my We'll call it my none.
And I'm not actually not cannot establish a value to that.
So let's refresh that.
And when I try to recall it it's there but it returns back undefined.
So undefined is actually another primitive data type and this one is just holds one value and that's
undefined.
So basically if you've set a variable but you haven't defined a value for the variable as of yet then
it's going to come back undefined and undefined is actually different than no.
So if I was to equal this to know which is the lower case there so if we equal it to No.
And if my refreshed and let's see the value of my 9 is we can see that we're returning back no.
So no it is a special type.
And these ones as well hold these ones as well.
Are are both primitive data types.
So no only holds that one value and basically it doesn't point to any valid value it's a snowball.
So if you want to set something to be novel but you don't want that to come up undefined there is a
difference between those and if you just don't want it to hold any type of value.
And lastly there is also a way using javascript built in method.
And we're going to come across quite a few of these as we go through the course.
And these are pre-built methods or functions and basically they execute a set of code behind the scenes.
So much like what we saw with alert we were typing in the alert method.
We've got another one where we can actually define and find out what data type it is.
So we can use type of.
And we can do them by none and we can see that my 9 is an object.
Let's do them by string.
We see that type of my string is a string type of number is a number and type of my Bouley is a boolean
value.
So there are the primitive ones and then everything else is an object and we are going to get more into
objects as we progress the course as well.
So this is useful method because in case you all of a sudden you switch the my number and you switch
to a string value.
So just stretch the string value.
Now if I do type of my number we see that it's being returned back as a string.
So this is going to be these types of builtin methods really become useful especially if you want to
make sure that the variable that you're pulling in is a number you can do it check to see if the value
of it is a number and if it isn't then you could do something to convert it into a number.
Or if it is a number then you can go ahead and execute your code.
So once you start applying a logic within your programming it becomes really important and really evident
how you can use these different methods that are built into javascript to really power up your program.
And apply application logic.
And before we finish up I did want to mention one other thing with strings.
So we saw that we've got strings and we need quotes around strings.
So there is a rule that we need to follow if we want to pluralize if we want to have a quote worlds
so this will work within the double quote environment.
So if I go back and if I refresh and if I call back my stream we can see that we've got.
Hello world.
But what happens if we actually want to do a double code around worlds.
So what do you think we can do there.
Because at this point we're going to have to double quotes or we're actually breaking out of our string
value and we're not.
We can see that the editor of bracket's is picking this up and it's making it black.
So basically we can see it right away that there's some type of error there that there's something not
right.
And the way to fix this is to use backslash.
So backslash gives us a way to use escape characters.
So now if I go back in and if I refresh it and if I get the value of my string we can see that we get
the return value and we've got the double quotes in there.
So this is the same thing for single quotes.
So if I for instance had a bunch of single quotes around here and bracket's is trying to auto complete
those single quotes for me.
So it's got to be really careful that I'm just adding the one in there.
So this time I need to escape the single quote and let's refresh and we'll try this one out again and
we see that that worked fine as well and it actually ignored the backslashes for the double quotes.
So it kept them in double double quotes.
So you got to make sure that if you are using any type of these special characters such as the quotes
that you're always that you always do the backslash in order to escape that there is another challenge
as well.
So what happens if you actually want to include the double slops within your within your string values
so what if we had four.
And we want to
have something like like this that's not a fraction but let's say for instance you had this backslash
there.
So what do you think is going to happen.
Now if I want to actually include the backslash we see that it actually breaks out of the the string
value and it doesn't show us 6.
So it just continues.
So basically what happens when you include the backslash is that we get this this type of character
here.
And it's if we want to include the backslash itself we could just double backslash and refresh it.
And now if we get the string value we see that we get the backslash being put there.
So that's how box options work and that's how you're able to escape.
Escape your special characters within your string values.
So take that.
Try it for yourself and try out this rule as well create some strings with some special characters like
quotes double quotes and single quotes.
Try it for yourself or even try to do adding in a backslash within your string value and try it for
yourself and get familiar with creating strings numbers booleans and some of the rules related to strings.
So the next lesson we're going to be jumping into props so props are going to provide us an interesting
way to actually take some input from the user and utilize it hold it within a variable value and then
make use of it within our code.
So that's coming up in the next lesson.